SAM THOROGOOD: Hey, everyone.
Sam here.
On this episode of the
"Santa Tracker Dev Diary,"
I want to dissect the Village.
Now the Village is the place
most people will land when
they come to Santa Tracker.
It's the cute interactive
scene with houses and stuff
to click on.
But it's different on
mobile and desktop.
So let's have a look at that.
So on desktop, which
we loosely define
as having a screen with
greater than 768 pixels,
we've got a very
desktop experience.
You can hover over cards and
see what's inside the houses.
We've also got a New Today
card in the top left.
And we have this because this
is a very physical experience.
It's meant to be
Santa's Village.
And as stuff gets unlocked
as you go down the page,
you get more and more
houses to play with.
However, we kind
of know that people
do tend to click on the stuff
at the top, which is why
we have this New Today card.
On mobile, however, we have
a very different experience.
We actually flip it on
its head, and we actually
show the most recent
cards at the top.
What's interesting is this
is actually the same DOM,
so these pop-up
cards here that you
see are actually the
same elements over here
but being displayed
in a different way.
They're in a flexbox
in both cases,
but on desktop, they're
positioned very absolutely.
They're very specifically
over the houses.
On mobile, we give that up, and
we just place them in a grid.
We actually reversed them,
which is kind of cool.
So the same DOM elements, if
we have a look here, have--
we use a CSS variable
called release order.
And on tablet mode,
which you see here,
and if they have a link,
which means that they're open,
we actually use the
order attribute.
And the order attribute
is used in a flexbox
to rearrange elements.
So these elements
on the left here
are actually ordered top
down, but we leverage
flexbox to rearrange them so
that the first one that's open
or the most recent one
that's open is at the top.
So that's pretty cool.
So despite the differences
in the card layout,
the Villages do have
some similarities.
The header here is the same.
The peg man here, which is
the map's dive game we have,
is actually the same
in both environments,
although we position him
slightly differently.
So this code here controls
whether we have the Easter eggs
at the bottom of the page.
And so you can see here
that this template, which
is a Polymer feature,
controls whether we have
the background Easter eggs.
There's quite a long list
here, as you can see.
The way this works is we
use the IN media query.
It sets the Is Seen
Village to true or false
based on whether
this query is true.
So if it's true,
we've got a big size,
and we want to create
all these nodes.
When this might happen
in the real world
is let's say you've
got a tablet.
And if you have a
tablet in landscape mode
and then rotate it, these
elements will now be created.
Your tablets change
size, and now we
have a big, wide
Village, and we want
to share the full experience.
However, when you rotate back,
what Polymer will do by default
is keep those DOM
elements around.
It will just hide them.
Now this is sometimes
desirable, right?
Like these elements might
take a lot to create.
There's a bit of a cost in that.
But for us, we don't want that.
For us, the cost
in these elements
is not really their
creation on the page,
their memory cost, but often
that they'll do things.
And we actually want to leverage
the natural lifecycle methods
of the platform, the
attach and detach methods,
to actually control
those elements' behavior.
Let's have a look at that.
The way Polymer does that is
through this restamp attribute.
And what that means is that
when this value becomes false,
these elements will properly
be removed from the page.
By default, as I said, they'll
just be made Display None.
Why do we do that?
For us, this is
really important,
because we try to leverage
the natural lifecycle methods
of the platform.
In our example here,
we've got the snowmobile.
And the snowmobile is a little
thing you click on that zooms
left and right.
It's quite cute.
But it does a bit of work
on attach and detach.
And rather than having
to awkwardly plumb
through some like, oh, you're
on the page or not on the page,
we can actually use
the natural methods,
these attached and detached
methods, which are built in.
They're part of the platform.
Although in the
platform, they're
called connected callback
and disconnected callback.
We can leverage these
methods to do things.
And we actually know, therefore,
that the element is on the page
or not on the page.
And that's very nice.
But we actually take
this to the extreme.
So in a previous
episode of the series,
I talked about lazy pages.
Now lazy pages is an element
that will create elements
as we need them.
So none of these elements are
on the page to start with,
and what happens is when
you navigate to them,
we create them.
That makes a lot of sense.
In previous years,
these elements
actually stuck
around on the page,
even after you were
done with them.
Now that's fine, but it
causes a few problems.
We had a lot of memory issues,
because basically, Santa
is a really complicated site.
If you went to a bunch of
scenes, what would often happen
is that your browser would
really get bogged down.
I mean, Santa's already
pretty complicated.
I'm not going to lie to you.
But it would get
really bogged down,
because of all these scenes.
You went to the airport.
You went to the press page.
You went to a few other
scenes, and your browser
would really be feeling it.
So what we do now is we
actually remove these elements
from the page.
What the tricky
parts there are is
we need to make sure that we're
actually cleaning up properly.
And in JavaScript and HTML,
this is actually quite hard.
So if you look at
a scene here, let's
look at our elf ski scene.
I'll show off the game.
It's pretty cute.
You can ski down
the mountain here,
and eventually you
run into a tree.
However, we need to make sure
that we clean up properly.
So, in this case, this game is
adding a few global listeners,
and that's tricky, right?
Because we need to make
sure that we remove them
when we're done.
So we wrap the attach and detach
methods in unshow and unhide
here, which you can see.
And so, the good way
to think about this
is whenever you add
a listener, make
sure you're adding an equivalent
clean-up handler somewhere
else.
And so for us, we add things
like the resize handler, which
are removed on the bottom.
We also have a tick interval,
which we removed on the bottom.
And we also have a
request animation frame.
Now in request animation
frame, this callback,
we don't register
an additional one.
Now, as part of this
ref, we actually
check to see if
we're on the page.
And if we're on the page,
we keep doing more refs,
and if not, then we stop,
which is a pretty natural way
to clean up when you're done.
So as part of this,
we make Santa Tracker
more stable and more
reliable, which is great.
So these were our learnings
from building a responsive
Village inside Santa
Tracker, and how they
apply to the site as a whole.
And while obviously Santa
Tracker is a hugely complicated
example, right?
We've got lots of
animations, and effects,
and stuff we want to
clean up, so it's not
happening while you're
browsing the site,
hopefully you'll take away
something for your own sites.
Any single page application
that loads content dynamically
might need to clean up rather
than keeping the DOM around.
Thanks for watching.
I'll see you next time.
You can subscribe to the
Google Chrome developer channel
down here or check out some
other great videos along here.